[knocking on door]
[knocking continues]
- [knocking continues]
- [breathes shakily]
[breathing heavily]
[knocking continues]
[shakily] Uh. who is it?
[soldier] Open the door.
[breathing shakily]
Press play. Subtitles appear.
200+ languages. One app:  tryray.app
Uh. what-what's this about?
Alexei.
Is he all right? Has something happened?
Get dressed. You're coming with us.
[sinister music playing]
[Alexei's partner breathes shakily]
Watch your sister. I'll be back soon.
[breathes shakily]
[sobs] P-Please.
Please!
Whatever's happened.
you must know. we're good workers.
And Alexei. he would never.
he would never...
- I don't know what it--
- [Lyudmilla] They're waiting for you.
[sobbing]
[stammers] Chief Designer.
Chief Designer.
Is Alexei all right?
[sniffles] They won't tell me
what's happened.
He left for a training mission last week
and now...
[sobs]
[inspirational music playing]
[stammers] What is it?
That's the surface of the moon.
[Alexei's partner]
I-Is Alexei going to the moon?
No. my little one.
He's already there.
[Alexei on comms]
I'm beginning my descent.
- [applauding]
- [chuckles]
[Alexei] I take this step for my country.
my people.
and for the Marxist-Leninist way of life.
Knowing that today is one small step
on a journey that will someday
take us all to the stars.
[theme song playing]
["Marching Troops" playing]
[news reporter] The celebration
of the Soviet victory
over the Americans continues
across the nation and the world...
as General Secretary Brezhnev
joined thousands of his fellow citizens
at a parade to honor
cosmonaut Alexei Leonov.
the man responsible
for the first ever moon landing.
A new hero for our times.
[music ends]
[apparatchik] To the Chief Designer
of the Soviet Space Program.
For your efforts leading to our nation's
victory in the race to the moon.
You are hereby bestowed
the honor of Hero of the Soviet Union.
Signed General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev.
- Thank you.
- [applause]
- Congratulations. comrade.
- Deputy Chairman Tarasov.
I'm sorry we couldn't have you at
the parades for this great achievement.
but KGB is now more concerned than ever
about what the Americans might do to you.
- If your identity were to become public--
- [grunts] Parades are for children.
All I request is a word
with the General Secretary
- about our next phase. it is imperative...
- No. no. no. Now is not the time
- to discuss this. comrade.
- ...that we... Then when?
I-I sent my proposals
to the Kremlin months ago.
Yes. I was briefed on them.
- Venus. Mars. No.
- Yes. Yes.
- The moon must remain your focus.
- I--
This will only further cement
the superiority of the socialist cause.
We must think bigger.
The moon was just a stepping stone.
How can you be so short-sighted?
Well. maybe you're the one
being short-sighted. comrade.
Get your own house in order
before talking of Venus.
[clears throat] I'm sorry. comrade.
This honor must stay here
where it will be safe.
[Chief Designer] Of course.
["Pe-loc Andante" playing]
[chattering in Russian]
Have a pleasant day.
[typewriter keys clacking]
Late start to the morning.
Comrade Morozova?
[whispering] I got lost.
This building's like a maze.
You'll get used to it.
Few weeks at the most.
[sighs]
- [person 1] You seen my watch?
- [person 2] No.
[person 1] Can you do this for me?
[person 2] Where'd you get the skirt from?
- [person 1] I don't remember. Why?
- It's far too short.
Everyone's gonna be staring at your legs.
Valya.
Well. how else are we gonna ensure
they give you a plum assignment?
[Valya] Yeah.
[person 1]
Not that you would ever tell me
if they're sending you to the moon.
[typewriter keys clacking]
- [knocking on door]
- [person 1] Y-You expecting someone?
[Valya] It's Sasha.
We're late for training.
- Come in!
- [door opens. closes]
Morning. lovebirds.
[person 1] Sasha. maybe you can tell me
since my husband refuses
and you have fewer scruples.
[chuckles] Ah.
I'll take that as a compliment.
Has he been assigned a lunar mission yet?
I don't wanna find out like Leonov's wife.
[Valya] Tanya. please not now.
Uh. you know the Chief
keeps his cards close.
[clears throat] But don't worry.
I'll make sure
that you're the last to know.
[Tanya] Go to hell. Sasha.
- [Valya] Love you.
- [Tanya] Bye!
[door closes]
[tense music playing]
[Lyudmilla] You need to stop pushing them.
[Chief Designer] It's ridiculous.
After the victories I've handed them
on a platter...
They still treat me
like a glorified errand boy.
You should take them seriously.
- The Americans are--
- Ah. the Americans. the Americans.
You all see Americans hiding
under every rock and pebble.
And indeed they are.
One of our assets in Washington
has alerted us
that the Americans have somehow acquired
your plans for the lunar base.
How? These are kept secure in engineering.
It appears that someone in Star City
is working for the other side.
[sighs]
[person] Colonel Raskova.
[colleague]
Oh. there she is. The Night Witch herself.
You know. they say
she killed over a hundred Germans
during the Great Patriotic War.
How am I supposed to gain her attention
if all I'm given are the dregs?
So much of what I must notate is just...
- Dull?
- It's mind-numbing drivel.
Why is it important to the State
how long he spends on the toilet
or how much paprika
she puts in the pepper stew?
I just didn't spend four years at
Lomonosov to become a glorified secretary.
Oh. be patient. Irina.
They always give the mundane assignments
to the new workers.
When I first started. I had to listen
to Georgi Frunze for six months.
He used to sit in his apartment
alone for days on end.
No one to speak with
except his mother on Sundays.
It was... [sighs] ...pathetic.
Silence is nice sometimes.
[chuckles]
At least we both have cosmonauts
to listen to.
My girl and your boy.
they're gonna be on the Luna 16 mission.
She's gonna be the first woman
on the moon.
They're gonna know the name
Yana Akhmatova all around the world.
[dramatic music plays]
One minute to jump! Double-check
your harnesses and altimeters.
I can't believe you haven't told her yet.
Tanya's not stupid.
She senses something.
but they're demanding
even more secrecy than with Leonov.
I understand it.
Americans could sabotage the mission.
- You never know what they're gonna do.
- Bullshit. Bullshit. Valyush.
They just don't want to be embarrassed in
front of the world if the mission fails.
- Yeah. and with a woman on board--
- [Yana] We won't fail.
We already put one bitch in orbit.
why not another?
[laughter]
Right. Shut up. Stay focused.
I. for one. am proud to be piloting
the first woman to the moon.
And I am proud to have you
as my pilot. Valyush.
Maybe you can hold her dress
during the parade.
Maybe I will.
Valya's been up three times already.
How many times have you been. Sasha?
Well. they're saving me for the big one.
That must be it.
Okay. we're at altitude.
Belikova. you're up first. Let's go!
Now remember. keep your arch.
Maintain your center of gravity
in your torso as you descend.
You didn't have proper body position
last time. so you landed roughly.
Ah. enough with this talk! We're not cubs.
Let's go!
She's crazy.
Ladies first.
Unless you want to hold my arm.
Belikova. ignore him.
You focus on your jump.
Be here.
[breathing heavily]
[grunts]
[panting]
[chuckling]
[grunts]
That's quite a landing. Belikova.
[sighs]
[cosmonaut] Hey. look! Oh. no. no. no
His chute's not opening! Look.
It's Sasha! Look. No. no.
- [screams]
- Sasha!
Quickly!
Shit.
- Hurry!
- [grunts]
[panting]
Sasha!
Sasha.
[laughing] At least I know
you'll cry at my funeral!
You're a piece of shit. Sasha!
Oh. come on. that was funny!
You should've seen
all your faces. [laughing]
Ignore him! He's a child.
[pants]
[sighs]
[keyboards clacking]
[whispering] What's the matter?
Are you sure Yana said it was her brother?
[Vika] Yeah.
Checked it ten times since last night.
She said she was going to see
her brother Ivan before her launch.
Mmm.
But she's never mentioned
a brother before.
So I checked on his name.
and there's an Ivan Akhmatov
who writes for the Sintaksis.
The underground magazine?
She must've withheld his name
in order to qualify for the program.
[stammers] You must report this. Vika.
[grunts]
[Yana] Why have you brought me here?
[interrogator]
Tell me about your brother. Ivan.
[Yana] What about him?
[interrogator]
What do you know about his association
with the Western periodical Sintaksis?
[Yana] What are you talking about?
Ivan is dead.
[interrogator] No. he's not.
[chuckling]
[sniffles]
This is... This is absurd.
Why. you think just because you--
[clicking]
[Yana] ...I've done!
I have sacrificed everything
for the cause of the Soviet people!
You know nothing about what that means!
[interrogator]
We know you're working with the Americans.
[Yana] You think everyone
is working for the Americans!
[interrogator]
You're not answering the que--
[recorder winding]
[Yana coughs]
Please. I'm so tired. please.
[interrogator] Say what you said before.
[Yana sniffles]
All right. all right. I'll admit it.
I have been working
against the Soviet state.
[breathes shakily]
Please. please...
Turn it off.
[Yana breathes shakily]
[recorder clicks]
This is a mistake. She didn't do this.
I know you two are close. but she really--
She is the best pilot I have!
You can't do this now.
Yana Akhmatova will not be
the first woman on the moon.
Moscow has already chosen her replacement.
Who?
[sighs]
Anastasia Belikova.
[sighs] Of course.
Of course. they want a puppet.
A more prudent choice
for a mission of this importance.
Akhmatova was too unpredictable.
Well. she can't be ready in three days!
Gagarin had three days.
Belikova is no Gagarin. and this is more
than a trip to Earth's orbit!
Belikova is--
She has been a party member
- since she was 18.
- A party member.
- Her father is still a local commissar...
- Oh. her father!
- ... of her village.
- Of course. None of which. Lyudmilla.
means that she can handle the dangers
of going on a space flight
with inadequate training!
[inhales sharply]
Which is why you will prepare her. Hmm?
[office workers chattering]
Comrade Belikova.
[chattering continues]
[sighs]
Do you understand what we just told you?
Yes.
You'll need to start training
with Valya Mironov immediately.
I understand. I will not fail you.
Tell me. Comrade Belikova.
why did you join the Cosmonaut corps?
Hmm?
To risk your life
to reach the cosmos. Why?
For the glory of the Soviet Union.
Chief Designer.
[Lyudmilla] Excellent answer. comrade.
You will be the first woman on the moon.
A Soviet woman.
You will be speaking to the entire world
from the lunar surface
about the greatness of the Soviet people.
[Anastasia] How will I know what to say?
Lots of people at the Kremlin have crafted
a speech for you.
All you have to do is memorize the words.
This mission must remain a secret
until you successfully land on the moon.
You must tell no one.
not even your father.
He will be... [inhales deeply]
...notified only upon its completion.
[breathes heavily]
[Lyudmilla distorted]
The secrecy is paramount...
[breathes heavily]
[Anastasia] Colonel. may I ask
why Yana Akhmatova
was removed from this mission?
[Lyudmilla] No. you may not.
Comrade?
[grunts]
- [groaning. pants]
- Call Dr. Borovsky. Tell no one.
[Soviet News Reporter]
The American press...
[Dr. Borovsky]
Blood pressure 140 over a hundred.
Pulse is still fast.
Last year's operation
may have saved your life.
but there was strain placed on your heart.
If you don't limit your stress.
it could cost you your life.
I'll be back in the morning
to run more tests.
Can I speak to you. please?
[Soviet News Reporter] ...and further claims
there was insufficient fuel...
I can't stress the importance of...
Nazi scientist Wernher von Braun
was asked to comment on
the Soviet Union's historic moon landing.
He said. "What matters is not
who is first. but who is more capable."
Look at him.
A Nazi paraded as a savior
and here I am hiding like a coward...
while they destroy yet another life.
What's happened?
Yana Akhmatova...
[sighs. swallows]
...is no longer on Luna 16. she's... [sighs]
...confessed.
They're saying she's the American mole.
Is it true?
[sighs] I'm so sorry.
The truth is they still don't trust me.
You have given them so much--
And yet they refuse my counsel.
They deny my plans and now... [grunts]
They've come for one of my eagles. [sighs]
[spouse] Hey. hey. [shushes]
[breathes shakily]
- [Galina shushes]
- And I do nothing.
Nothing.
I do nothing.
[Tanya humming]
♪ There was a lonely birch in the field ♪
[vocalizes]
♪ Standing there ♪
♪ There was no one to bend the birch ♪
♪ No one to bend the curly one ♪
[vocalizes]
[knocks on door]
[humming]
[door opening]
- [visitor] Well. don't you look nice.
- [Tanya] Shh. Be careful.
[visitor]
It's fine. He'll be at training all day.
[Tanya] No. it's my neighbor. Semenova.
She's gonna be the death of me.
always poking around.
[visitor chuckles] But I'm like a mouse.
slipping through the cracks.
And you're my cheese.
[Tanya chuckles]
Shut up. Sasha.
[chuckles]
[kissing. moaning]
[panting]
- [grunts]
- Wait.
- Behind me.
- Okay.
- Leave this.
[kissing. moaning]
[panting]
Put your hand there.
Put your hand down.
[moaning]
[moaning continues]
- Remember to pull out.
- [Sasha] Okay.
[moaning]
Fuck. [moans]
I said not inside.
I'm sorry. I couldn't... I couldn't help it.
- Get a cloth.
- [moans]
Give me a minute.
[laughs] Get a cloth.
- Just give me a minute.
- It's not funny.
Oh. fuck it.
[both chuckle]
Thanks.
What the fuck is that?
- [panting]
- Irina.
- [Sasha] You got it?
- [Tanya] Yeah.
- [Sasha. Tanya breathing heavily]
- Irina.
You okay?
I'm fine. W-What is it?
I've been given a commendation
for my work.
[gasps] Oh. congratulations. comrade.
Thank you for pushing me.
Apparently. after interrogation
she gave a full confession.
Well. I better prepare for a meeting
on the third floor.
Operations Directorate asked me
to sit in. so...
[ground control operator] Luna 16.
Prepare to run reentry fail test 370.
- Moscow. Luna 16.
- [device beeps]
We detect a failure
of the automatic sequence.
[ground control operator] Copy. Luna 16.
Calculate time remaining to proceed
with manual burn termination.
We're reading your rate of reentry
as too high.
Three seconds remaining.
terminating burn--
- No. not yet. No.
- [alarm blaring]
[alarm blaring]
[ground control operator]
Burn terminated early.
Catastrophic overload
of the capsule heat shield.
- Restart the sequence. Let's try again.
- Operation confirmed.
- Valya. sorry. I--
- Don't apologize to me.
[ground control operator]
Please set coordinates to 5927.
[device beeps]
We both know you don't belong here.
You're not supposed to be here.
And the person who should be
sitting in your seat is off
to some labor camp somewhere.
- Yana is--
- Don't ever say her name.
Take her name out of your mouth!
You sit there and you stay quiet
and you press the buttons
I tell you to press
when I tell you to press them!
We're gonna try this again
and then again and again and again!
And hopefully when we launch in two days.
you won't kill us both.
'Cause this is real life.
do you understand?
- Yes.
- Good.
Moscow. begin entry sequence.
[ground control operator] Copy Luna 16.
Preparing simulation again for reentry
fail test 370.
[scoffs]
[Tanya] What are you doing in there?
[Sasha] "Love you. sunshine."
Oh. shut up.
[Sasha] Should I start leaving you notes?
[Tanya] Please don't.
[Sasha] Shit. I'm late for training.
- [chuckles]
- [Sasha sighs]
You're all so predictable.
Oh. come on.
You know I'd much rather be here
with you than amongst those snakes.
You heard what happened to Yana?
Before Valya left
he wouldn't stop raging about it.
They're saying someone in her family
was a dissident.
But Yana told me she hasn't
talked to her family in years.
So. how could she have
talked to her brother?
[Tanya] Then why would they do this?
[Sasha] She always spoke her mind.
They had to remove her
because they couldn't control her.
So Yana never got the chance to fly.
So she was on the next mission?
And Valya?
I really must go.
[sighs]
[door creaks. closes]
...me she hasn't
talked to her family in years.
So. how could she have
talked to her brother?
[Irina] Look. he said that Yana
hasn't spoken to her family in years.
Well. he would say that. He's her friend.
Yes. but there is a chance she's innocent.
[stammers]
I know my conclusion was accurate.
Yana confessed. she's the mole.
I'm sure it was accurate.
but perhaps
it's worth looking into further.
You'd like that. wouldn't you?
[Irina] Like what?
Me having to retract my report
and be humiliated
in front of Colonel Raskova.
Of course not. That's not what I want.
Jealousy is the last thing
I would have expected of you. Irina.
I'm just trying to make sure
you have the right person.
[bus engine running]
[chattering indistinctly]
[Valya urinating]
What are you doing?
Before his Vostok launch.
Gagarin really needed a piss.
so he just went on the back tire.
Now. it's. uh. tradition.
It's to splash against the tire.
Uh. it's how Valentina did it.
Oh.
- [urinating]
- Belikova. what you doing?
Why's she got her ass out?
[Valya] She's fucking mad.
[steam hisses]
[breathes shakily]
[aide grunts]
[chattering]
[Controller] Discharge SHO.
[speaks indistinctly]
[Controller] One-minute readiness.
[whispering indistinctly]
[Controller] Good to start.
[speaks indistinctly]
[Controller] Broach one. Stretching.
- [breathing heavily]
- [Controller] Purging. Broach two.
[Valya] Star City. Luna 16.
We're starting oxygen flow.
[Controller] Copy. Luna 16.
Proceed with primary oxygen valve opening.
- Opening primary oxygen valve.
- No.
You just practice your lines.
That's your assignment.
[sighs]
[drilling]
Luna 16 capsule leak check in progress.
Cabin pressure is normal.
Star City. Luna 16.
We're ready for launch.
[Controller]
Copy. Luna 16. Opening fuel tanks.
Ignition.
[Controller]
Adding 435 meters per second
to the capsule velocity.
[breathes shakily]
[Controller] Star City. Luna 16.
you are crossing 100 kilometers.
[Anastasia breathing deeply]
[chuckles]
[Anastasia chuckling]
[suspenseful music playing]
[worker coughs]
[breathes shakily]
[sighs]
[Yana] I have done nothing wrong!
I shouldn't be here!
I am telling you the truth.
I have done nothing wrong.
Why can't you listen to me?
I'm not lying.
I have a brother. but he is dead.
And I love my country. I would do anyth--
[cassette rewinding]
[rhythmic pounding]
[Anastasia] This step for every woman.
I... I am a woman.
"I am one woman.
but I take this step
for every Soviet woman.
For all Soviet women."
Um...
And...
I take this step for all those...
and all those
who have dedicated...
their lives
to the Marxist-Leninist way of life.
...to the Marxist-Leninist way of life.
[guard 1] You may exit.
[Anastasia] To those who have sacrificed...
who have sacrificed...
For the motherla...
sacrificed for the motherland.
[vehicle approaching]
[Anastasia] A land built on the idea
that we are all equal in the eyes. uh...
A land built on the idea
that we are all equal in the eyes
of the Revolution.
[typewriter clacking]
[Lyudmilla] Come in here!
I'm sorry. Colonel Raskova.
I thought you'd gone for the night.
You're the new girl. from Moscow.
That right?
Yes. that's right.
You're claiming Cosmonaut Akhmatova
was arrested in error.
that she's not the person
we are looking for?
[Irina] Correct.
Her brother died when he was a child.
There's no connection
to the dissident writer.
They merely share the same name.
It was an innocent mistake.
- The person who listens to the--
- There is no such thing.
This is good work.
Thank you. Colonel Raskova.
I'm honored that you think so.
You say here you overheard
this discrepancy
- during your normal duties.
- [Irina] Yes. Colonel.
But you're not assigned to listen
to Cosmonaut Sasha Polivanov.
No. he was in conversation
with Tanya Mironova.
He said it to her.
I noted this in my report as well.
Ah. yes. I see that here.
But you make no mention of them fucking.
I...
They were fucking. were they not?
- Yes.
- Why is it not in your report?
I didn't fe... feel
it was essential to the case.
Well. your job is to write down
everything that you hear.
Yes. ma'am. I'm sorry.
Oh. no. Don't take me the wrong way.
I'm impressed with your work.
Where'd you grow up?
Rublyovka.
[chuckles. swallows]
Yes. I can smell it on you.
Privilege.
[inhales sharply]
It's a myth of the Soviet Union.
that after the Revolution.
we became more egalitarian.
No.
There are still elites.
The Revolution just disguised them.
Like you.
Irina Vasilievna Morozova.
you show promise. but you are soft.
Never to fight for anything.
You assume it will be handed to you.
Is that who you are?
No.
Come with me.
[Irina] To where?
To fix this mistake.
[Valya] Belikova is suiting up
for a space walk
from the orbiter to the lander.
Undocking and landing on schedule.
[Controller] Chamber pressure has
reached near-vacuum.
Ready for hatch opening.
[Anastasia]
Received and opening the lock hatch.
[breathing heavily]
[breathes heavily]
I'm making my way along the ship
towards the hatch of the lunar lander.
[Valya] You need to go slowly. Anastasia.
One hand over the other.
[Anastasia] Received. All is normal.
[breathes heavily]
[breathing heavily]
[suit beeping]
Hold on.
I'm getting an alert in my suit.
[beeping]
The CO2 is rising too quickly.
The scrubber must be malfunctioning.
[Anastasia] Ground Control.
is there any way
- I can vent the excess CO2?
- [breathing heavily]
[Controller]
Received. We are working on it.
[Ground Control clamoring]
Belikova. we want you to try
cycling the ventilation loop valve.
[Anastasia] Received. Cycling valve.
[beeping continues]
[sighs]
Ground Control. it didn't work.
CO2 is still rising.
Anastasia.
come back to the command capsule.
No.
[pants]
If I come back now. we will have to abort.
I am not coming back.
We'll miss the landing window.
I have to get to the lander.
I can still make it.
- [beeping continues]
- Shit.
All right. everyone.
we must find a way to repair that suit.
[pants] CO2 is still rising.
[pants] It's slow going.
[pants]
My vision is beginning... [pants]
It's beginning to warp. [breathes heavily]
[Valya] Listen to me.
You have to get to the lander.
Every second will count. Anastasia.
We must restore the operation
of the CO2 scrubber now
or she will lose consciousness.
The scrubber must be defective.
There's nothing we can do from down here.
Well. maybe if Zvezda did a better job
of constructing their space suit.
That's really helpful. Viktor.
Thank you so much for that.
What's the current CO2 level?
Chief Designer?
Uh. 13% and rising.
Have we tried cycling
the ventilation loop valve?
Yes. it didn't help.
The vent fan's malfunctioned.
Does she have time to get back
in the lander and repressurize?
At the current rate of exertion.
she will lose consciousness in a minute.
How do we reduce the CO2 level?
[Anastasia grunts]
It's getting harder to move.
How do we reduce the CO2 levels?
I said. "How do we reduce the CO2?"
Yes?
If she were to puncture her suit...
- What? Puncture her suit?
- Let him speak.
The pressure in the suit
will drop dangerously low.
- but the CO2 would be able to escape.
- [controller 1] She could suffocate.
If she doesn't go unconscious first.
How long would she have
before she passes out?
[sighs] Maybe two minutes?
To get inside. close the hatch
and repressurize
before losing consciousness.
What's your name?
Sergei Nikulov.
Raise Luna 16.
We'll go with Sergei Nikulov's solution.
[Controller]
Luna 16. Star City. Do you read?
[Anastasia] Puncture the suit?
How? [breathing heavily]
[Chief Designer] There's an S-band antenna
on the exterior of the lander
next to the hatch.
Use it to puncture the suit
in the left arm
next to the release valve.
Be careful.
The hole can't be any more
than four millimeters.
This is insane. Chief Designer.
Her suit pressure's gonna plummet.
She'll be in a vacuum within minutes.
It's the only way.
otherwise that scrubber's gonna continue
filling the suit with carbon dioxide.
She can patch it up
when she's back on the lander.
[Anastasia]
I will not fail you. Chief Designer.
I know. my eagle. I know.
- [breathing heavily]
- [beeping continues]
[grunts. pants]
[pants]
- [grunts]
- [rapid beeping]
[gasping. panting]
Anastasia? Anastasia. are you okay?
[Anastasia] Venting from the puncture
made me lose my grip.
[breathes heavily]
The tether held. I'm climbing back.
[pants]
[beeping continues]
I'm back at the ship.
I'm gonna try and keep going.
Anastasia. you don't have time
to keep reattaching the tether.
Just-Just lose it.
[grunts. pants]
Don't waste a moment. Go. go. go. go. go.
[breathing heavily]
- [grunts]
- [rapid beeping continues]
Come on. Anastasia. Come on. come on.
[groans. pants]
[breathing heavily]
I'm 15 meters from the lander's hatch.
You have to go now or you won't make it.
[grunts]
[gasps]
[screams. grunts]
[grunts]
[panting]
[inhales shakily]
[beeping continues]
[gasping. grunting]
[panting]
[whooshing]
[cheering]
[applause]
[chuckles] Yes.
[panting]
[laughs]
[grunts]
Can you look at me?
[breathes shakily]
This is Comrade Morozova.
She says there has been a mistake.
That you are not a spy.
That your brother. in fact. died
when he was only a year old.
Is this information correct?
You can answer me.
I tried to tell them.
Over and over and over.
And they said I was lying.
The more I said it. the more they beat me.
I just wanted it to end.
[Lyudmilla]
And if I were to order your release...
[swallows. breathes shakily]
I would return to my training.
And I would do what is...
whatever is best for the space program.
[gasps]
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
[Lyudmilla]
You have shown promise tonight. comrade.
Promise beyond your training.
You may have a bright future at Star City.
But first you must show me
that you are capable
of completing the task.
I don't understand.
No. [stammers] Please.
- I won't say anything to anyone...
- Shoot her.
...I promise.
I won't say anything to anyone. please.
- Why? She hasn't done anything wrong?
- I won't. please. No.
- [Yana] I won't say anything. please.
- We do not arrest the innocent. comrade.
[Yana] I won't. please.
- Our power depends on it.
- I won't say anything to anyone.
Please. I'm not going to say anything.
[gasps] I can't.
[Yana] I don't want to die. No. no.
- I... I just want to go back to work.
- I can't.
[Yana] I just want to go to work.
I just want to...
Please. no. No... [sobs] ...no.
Please. don't do this. please.
I'm not going to...
Thank you. Thank you so much.
I just want to fly. that is all I ever--
[yells]
[pants]
[gasping. sobbing]
[Anastasia breathing deeply]
[chuckles]
[breathes shakily]
[Controller] Comrade Belikova.
You must set up your camera exactly
20 meters in front of the LK Lander.
Make sure the Soviet flag is properly
positioned three meters to the right.
We'll begin your broadcast in 90 seconds.
Comrade Belikova. do you copy?
[breathes heavily]
I am one woman.
but I take this step for every woman
of the Soviet Union.
I take this step for all those
who have dedicated their lives
to the Marxist-Leninist way of life.
[stammers] Who've sacri... ficed...
...their...
S... [sighs]
[exhales deeply]
Standing here...
looking at this beautiful new world...
I'm aware... [breathes shakily]
...that I am here because of
those who have come before me.
[cries]
Filosofova.
Tereshkova.
[pants]
Yana Akhmatova.
Brilliant. fierce patriots.
They are the best of us.
This moment...
- This moment is for them.
- Make it stop.
- Turn off the sound.
- [Anastasia] We must remember them.
Now!
We must remember what they di--
[audio cuts]
[dogs barking]
[Soviet News Reporter] It seems that we
have lost the sound connection
from the feed at Fra Mauro.
But as you can see.
cosmonaut Anastasia Belikova
is still addressing the Soviet Union
during this historic event.
[Older Woman] She hoped to stay up
for the landing. but was too tired.
Thank you.
- As the first woman on the moon...
- See you tomorrow.
...she is an inspiration to us all.
Millions of citizens
from countries around the world
are currently watching this broadcast.
And are witnessing
what is possible for those who.
in the words of cosmonaut Belikova.
have "dedicated themselves
to the Marxist-Leninist way of life."
Inspiring words.
[news reporter continues indistinctly]
[morose music playing]
Press play. Subtitles appear.
200+ languages. One app:  tryray.app